Comments to the Author
The manuscript extends the authors’ previous work on modeling
amphiphilic particles in a viscous solvent to modeling amphiphilic Janus
particles suspended in a viscous background flow. The authors adopted
the GMRES iterative method to solve the screened Laplace equation for
hydrophobic attraction. They investigated the inter-monolayer friction
of vesicles formed by amphiphilic Janus particles and corresponding
membrane ruptures in viscous flows, and simulated the spatial migration
dynamics of a vesicle in a parabolic flow and also the hydrodynamics of
two vesicles in shear and extensional flows. 

This manuscript presents a systematic study of the hydrodynamics of
vesicles formed by amphiphilic Janus particles in viscous flows. It
provides quantitative analysis of the inter-monolayer friction, membrane
permeability and the migration dynamics of soft suspended vesicles. The
topic on hydrodynamics of complex fluids is interesting, and this
research fits the scope of Journal of Fluid Mechanics. Here, I am in a
favor of its publication at some points if the authors can address the
following concerns in the revised manuscript.

Comments: 1. In section 2.2, the authors defined a repulsion force with
an empirical formula to prevent particle collisions. However, there is
no benchmark test to show that this artificial repulsion force can
generate correct hydrodynamic lubrication. The authors are suggested to
justify and validate the use of the Imposed Forces with comparison to
well-known lubrication forces between particles. 

2. Fig. 3 plots the time evolution of the reduced area in (a) and the
excess length of the bilayer structure in (b). Both show obvious
oscillations with multiple frequencies, which are not as smooth as the
inset of (c) showing one dominant frequency. The authors are suggested
to explain the source of multiple frequencies generated in the time
evolution of A and Δ. 

3. Fig. 6 illustrates the migration process of a JP vesicle in a
parabolic flow, where the moving velocity is 8 nm/ns and the time frame
is 0 to 12 μs. Given the length scale R = 20 nm, the migration distance
should be 1000x R. However, in the figure, it shows a migration distance
about 4x R. The authors are suggested to double-check their model
parameterization. 

4. In Fig. 10, the significant discontinuities in streamlines across the
surface of vesicles are observed, while in most other cases the
streamlines are smooth across the interface of vesicles. The authors are
suggested to describe such discontinuity and provide the explanation.  

5. Minor: I read some grammatical errors in the manuscript that should
be corrected, i.e., “replicate well-know vesicle hydrodynamics …” on
page 2, “…a baseline JP vesicles…” on page 8, “circular vesicles has a
Laplace pressure…” at Eq. (4.7). The authors are suggested to have a
thorough read of the manuscript.
